To check for Python 3.9,
you'll want to pull up a terminal.
So, if
I run Python 3 -- version,
I should see Python 3.9.
You should see that as well.
It's especially important to install
the latest version of Python because
your machine especially if you're running
a Mac might already come with a version
of Python.
Depending on your OS,
it might be an older one.
So we want to make sure that we're
working with the latest and greatest.
Now we want to make a project directory
and create a virtual environment in it.
So for this example,
Let me start off from the same point
that you're all starting off at.
Make a directory.
Make sure that you're
in your home directory.
So in this case for Mac or
Linux, just cd.home, and
then make a directory called pyworkshop.
And cd into it,
should be an empty directory.
Now we want to create a virtual
environment, and activate it.
In order to do that,
we're gonna use Python 3 -m the dash
m means run this next command
as a module which is gonna be
the vn pythons 3 built
in virtual environments.
And the next command is gonna be a name.
In this case,
I'm just gonna call it the standard env.
It's a pretty good idea to name your
virtual environments env because if
you're using a standard git ignore for
Python,
this is one of the folders that's
gonna be automatically excluded.
And you're not going to want
these auto generated files to
end up in your git repository.
Now if I take a look here,
I should see a env directory.
I'm not gonna talk about what's
in this directory for the moment.
We're gonna talk about that a little
bit later on in the class but
basically it contains a standalone Python
version, a standalone Python interpreter.
And when we work in that interpreter,
we are guaranteed that we are using
the version of Python that
we used when we created it.
And any packages that we install when that
virtual environment is activated are going
to stay in that virtual environment and
not pollute your system settings.
So working in a virtual environment for
a project no matter how small it is,
is generally a pretty good idea.
In order to activate it on Mac,
I'm gonna source env/bin/activate and
your terminal might not
be as fancy as mine,
you'll probably see something
that looks like this.
It'll say env in parentheses
followed by the rest of your prompt.
And that means that the virtual
environment is now activated.
Now I can type Python in here.
I don't need the three anymore.
And the Python executable points to
that version of Python that we used
when we created the virtual environment.
You also wanna make sure
that you have VS code.
If you are running on Mac and
you recently installed VS code,
you might not have the code executable.
You can check if you have it
by typing code --version.
If you are on a Mac and
you don't see anything here,
you might have to follow an extra step.
Sorry, that is right here which is called
launching from the command line, install
code command on path, I'll show you how
to bring up this dialog box in a second.
But if you're not seeing that
the instructions are right there.
Now, we wanna do a little bit
of configuration for VS code.
We wanna make sure that we have
the Python extension installed.
You're not gonna see anything from
the Python extension until you
open your very first Python file.
I have a link here to some list of keymap
extensions if you want to remap your key
bindings in VS code to Emacs or
Vim or Sublime or something else.
But while we're working through the class,
there's only
two keyboard shortcuts that you're
going to need to remember in VS code.
For Windows that is Ctrl + Shift + P and
Command + Shift + P on Mac for
show command palette.
This is like your Swiss Army knife.
It's going to bring up a window
where you can type and
see all of the lists of different
commands that VS code offers.
So if I bring that up in here,
if I type Python,
we'll see that all of these
commands are available
because I've opened a Python file and
I have the Python extension activated.
The other command that you need
to know is Ctrl + P on Windows or
Command + P on Mac, that's going
to bring up the Fast File Finder.
So you can type in any file name
that's contained in your project and
it will quickly bring it up.
If you know these two keyboard shortcuts,
just write them down on a post it note
somewhere near your desk,
you're gonna be using them a lot.
And that's really kind of all that
you need to know to get productive in
Python in VS code.
Now, when you work with files when
you bring up a new Python file if you
have not done that before,
if you don't have a VS code installation,
you might see some various pop ups.
So let's go ahead and create a new file.
It's just new file or
command + N, Ctrl + N and
we're going to save this
file as my VS code is
now angry that I have
renamed my directory.
We're gonna call this hi.py.
And if you're opening up this file for
the first time,
you might see some pop ups here asking
you whether you want to install a linter.
In which case, you do, click Yes on that.
And if there are any other pop ups for
things that are missing or
not installed, go ahead and
click Yes and install them.
There's also an optional extension that
you might want to install called pylons.
And it is an additional feature
rich language server for VS code.
You don't need to have it but
I find it pretty useful.
So you wanna go ahead and install that.
Make sure that when you have
this Python file opened,
that the correct interpreter
is opened as well,
in this case mine is the last one.
So it looks like VS code didn't
automatically pick it up maybe because of
my directory weirdness.
So make sure that you go ahead and
select the right interpreter.
Here you'll see that
mine is in .n/bin/python.
And now I'll see here at the bottom that
I have the correct version of Python.
I'm just gonna bump that up a little bit.
Now, what do we need to do to
run Python code in VS code?
We've already gone ahead and
created a new file.
Let's copy this into our new file and
run it.
There are a few different options for
running your Python files.
I'll show you how to run them both from
within VS code and from the terminal.
So I pasted that right in there.
If you're already in VS code, you can open
up the command palette with Command +
Shift + P or Ctrl + Shift + P and
select Python run Python file in terminal.
And this has the advantage of VS
code being smart and if your virtual
environment isn't activated, it will
automatically select it and you will see
that it output right in the included
terminal window right here at the bottom.
You can also,
Navigate to this file in your terminal and
make sure that your virtual environment
is activated and run Python, hi.py.
So this is outside of VS code
if you're more comfortable in
a separate terminal or
on the command line.